.TH ARCHAIC-CLI 1 "December 2024" "Archaic 1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
archaic-cli \- command-line interface for the Archaic autocomplete daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B archaic-cli
.RI [ COMMAND ]
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B archaic-cli
is the command-line interface for interacting with the Archaic autocomplete daemon.
It provides commands to control the daemon, query completions, and manage state.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B scan \fIpath\fR
Trigger a filesystem scan starting at the specified path.
.TP
.B query \ficwd\fR \fIinput\fR
Validate a path query. Returns whether the path exists and its type.
.TP
.B complete \fiprefix\fR [\fIn\fR]
Get completions for the given prefix. Optional limit n (default: 20).
.TP
.B suggest \fiprefix\fR
Get the best suggestion for the given prefix.
.TP
.B ping
Check if the daemon is running and responsive.
.TP
.B metrics
Display daemon performance metrics and statistics.
.TP
.B scan-status
Check the current scan progress and status.
.TP
.B save \fIpath\fR
Save daemon state to the specified file path.
.TP
.B shutdown
Stop the daemon gracefully.
.TP
.B fuzzy \fIquery\fR [\fIn\fR]
Get fuzzy completions matching the query pattern.
.TP
.B recent [\fIn\fR]
Get the n most recently accessed files.
.TP
.B export-freq \fIpath\fR
Export path frequency data to a TSV file.
.TP
.B import-freq \fIpath\fR
Import path frequency data from a TSV file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display help message and exit.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Display version information and exit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B ARCHAIC_CONFIG
Path to configuration file (default: ~/.config/archaic/config.toml).
.TP
.B ARCHAIC_SOCKET
Path to daemon socket (default: /tmp/archaic-daemon.sock).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/archaic/config.toml
User configuration file.
.TP
.I /etc/archaic/config.toml
System-wide configuration file.
.TP
.I /tmp/archaic-daemon.sock
Default daemon socket path.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Start a scan:
.RS
.nf
$ archaic-cli scan ~/projects
.fi
.RE
.PP
Get completions:
.RS
.nf
$ archaic-cli complete ~/pro 10
.fi
.RE
.PP
Check daemon status:
.RS
.nf
$ archaic-cli ping
.fi
.RE
.PP
Export learned preferences:
.RS
.nf
$ archaic-cli export-freq ~/archaic-frequencies.tsv
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR archaic (1),
.BR archaic-helper (1),
.BR archaic.conf (5)
.SH AUTHORS
Sam O'Reilly and contributors.
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/Samoreilly/Archaic/issues
