.TH ARCHAIC.CONF 5 "December 2024" "Archaic 1.0" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
archaic.conf \- configuration file for Archaic autocomplete daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.I ~/.config/archaic/config.toml
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Archaic configuration file uses TOML format and controls all aspects
of the daemon's behavior, from scanning parameters to scoring weights.
.SH SECTIONS
.SS [daemon]
Core daemon configuration.
.TP
.B scan_path = "\fIpath\fR"
Root directory to index (required).
.TP
.B socket_path = "\fIpath\fR"
Unix socket location (default: /tmp/archaic-daemon.sock).
.TP
.B scan_threads = \fIn\fR
Number of parallel scanner threads (default: 4).
.TP
.B max_depth = \fIn\fR
Maximum directory traversal depth (default: 10).
.TP
.B rescan_interval_seconds = \fIn\fR
Auto-rescan interval, 0 to disable (default: 300).
.SS [storage]
Memory and storage configuration.
.TP
.B max_buckets = \fIn\fR
Hash bucket count for path store (default: 65536).
.TP
.B max_nodes_per_bucket = \fIn\fR
Max entries per bucket (default: 100000).
.TP
.B cache_max_entries = \fIn\fR
Query cache size (default: 1024).
.TP
.B cache_ttl_seconds = \fIn\fR
Query cache time-to-live (default: 2).
.TP
.B colored_output = \fIbool\fR
Enable colored output in completions (default: true).
.TP
.B case_insensitive = \fIbool\fR
Enable case-insensitive matching (default: false).
.TP
.B recent_files_capacity = \fIn\fR
Max recent files to track (default: 50, max: 100).
.SS [scoring]
Completion ranking weights (should sum to 1.0).
.TP
.B weight_frequency = \fIn\fR
Usage frequency weight (default: 0.40).
.TP
.B weight_recency = \fIn\fR
Last-access recency weight (default: 0.30).
.TP
.B weight_depth = \fIn\fR
Path depth preference weight (default: 0.15).
.TP
.B weight_type = \fIn\fR
File type preference weight (default: 0.10).
.TP
.B weight_cwd_proximity = \fIn\fR
Current directory proximity weight (default: 0.05).
.SS [scanner]
Filesystem scanning options.
.TP
.B ignore_dirs = [\fI"dir1"\fR, \fI"dir2"\fR, ...]
Directory patterns to skip (supports wildcards).
.TP
.B ignore_files = [\fI"*.ext"\fR, ...]
File patterns to skip (supports wildcards).
.SS [bookmarks]
Pinned directory shortcuts.
.TP
.B paths = [\fI"/path/one"\fR, \fI"/path/two"\fR, ...]
Bookmarked directories for quick access (max 32).
.SS [fish], [bash], [zsh]
Shell-specific settings.
.TP
.B commands = [\fI"cmd1"\fR, \fI"cmd2"\fR, ...]
Commands that trigger completions.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
[daemon]
scan_path = "/home/user/projects"
scan_threads = 4
max_depth = 10

[storage]
colored_output = true
case_insensitive = false
recent_files_capacity = 50

[scoring]
weight_frequency = 0.40
weight_recency = 0.30

[scanner]
ignore_dirs = [".git", "node_modules", "__pycache__"]
ignore_files = ["*.pyc", "*.log"]

[bookmarks]
paths = ["/home/user/projects", "/home/user/documents"]
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/archaic/config.toml
User configuration file.
.TP
.I /etc/archaic/config.toml
System-wide configuration.
.TP
.I .archaicignore
Per-directory ignore patterns.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR archaic (1),
.BR archaic-cli (1),
.BR archaic-helper (1)
