.TH ARCHAIC 1 "December 2024" "Archaic 1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
archaic \- blazing-fast autocomplete daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B archaic
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B archaic
is a high-performance autocomplete daemon that indexes filesystems
and provides sub-millisecond path completions. It learns from usage
patterns to rank suggestions intelligently.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-c \fIpath\fR, \-\-config \fIpath\fR
Use the specified configuration file.
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-daemon
Run as a daemon (background process).
.TP
.B \-s \fIpath\fR, \-\-socket \fIpath\fR
Use the specified socket path.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display help message and exit.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Display version information and exit.
.SH FEATURES
.IP \(bu 2
Sub-millisecond query latency via radix tree and LRU cache
.IP \(bu 2
Intelligent scoring based on frequency, recency, depth, and type
.IP \(bu 2
Multi-threaded parallel filesystem scanning
.IP \(bu 2
Periodic auto-rescan to stay in sync with filesystem changes
.IP \(bu 2
State persistence across daemon restarts
.IP \(bu 2
Fuzzy matching for typo-tolerant completions
.IP \(bu 2
Recent files tracking with LRU eviction
.IP \(bu 2
Directory-only filtering for cd/mkdir commands
.IP \(bu 2
Colored output support (respects NO_COLOR)
.SH ARCHITECTURE
Archaic uses a multi-component architecture:
.IP \(bu 2
.B Daemon
: Background process holding the index
.IP \(bu 2
.B CLI
: Command-line interface for control
.IP \(bu 2
.B Helper
: Persistent connection handler for shells
.IP \(bu 2
.B Shell Plugins
: Integration for Fish, Bash, and Zsh
.SH SIGNALS
.TP
.B SIGTERM, SIGINT
Graceful shutdown.
.TP
.B SIGHUP
Reload configuration.
.TP
.B SIGUSR1
Trigger manual rescan.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/archaic/config.toml
User configuration file.
.TP
.I /tmp/archaic-daemon.sock
Default Unix domain socket.
.TP
.I /tmp/archaic-state.bin
Default state file location.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR archaic-cli (1),
.BR archaic-helper (1),
.BR archaic.conf (5)
.SH AUTHORS
Sam O'Reilly and contributors.
